# Arm of Springfield Committee of the Whole Meeting - April 8, 2025

_Generated: 2025-11-21T13:23:14.157396_

## Attendees

- Mayor Patrick Tarion
- Deputy Mayor Glenn Fuel
- Andy Kaczynski
- Mark Miller
- Melinda Warren


## Summary

The Committee of the Whole meeting for the Arm of Springfield was held on April 8, 2025. The agenda and minutes from March 11th were approved. Discussions focused on amendments to the Use of Firearms Bylaw, including defining 'center fire rifle ammo,' changes related to shooting ranges, and increased fine amounts. The Unsightly Bylaw was also reviewed, with a decision to remove the 'regular outdoor burning' clause and maintain current fine amounts. The meeting concluded after a closed session to discuss legal matters.

## Decisions

- Approved the agenda for April 8, 2025.
- Approved the Committee of the Whole minutes from March 11, 2025.
- To bring the amended Use of Firearms Bylaw back to a future Council meeting for first reading.
- To remove the clause regarding 'regular outdoor burning' from the Unsightly Bylaw.
- To maintain the current fine amounts for the Unsightly Bylaw.
- Entered a closed meeting at 1:05 p.m. to discuss legal matters and conduct.
- Exited the closed meeting at 1:38 p.m.
- Adjourned the meeting at 1:38 p.m.

## Action Items


---

### Full Transcript
```

 I'll start again. Thank you very much. This is the arm of Springfield meeting agenda for April 8th of 2025 committee of a whole starting at exactly 1pm. I'd like to do the introductions myself. I'm Mayor Patrick Tarion into my right and descending order is Deputy Mayor Glenn fuel Ward 1 Ward 2 is Andy Kaczynski. The next will be Ward 3 Mark Miller. Next would be Ward 4. Excuse me, Melinda Warren. And I wonder if we'll go to the proof of the agenda. Is there any amendments or deletions to that from Council? I see none. Then I get a show hands of those in support. unanimous. It's carried. And we'll go to approval of the minutes. That's a committee of the whole minutes from the last time that'll be on March the 11th. Any additions, deletions to the minutes at all. And I see none. Just get a show hands those in support. unanimous and it's carried. Then we'll go to and finish our business. First one will be a 6.1. That's the use of firearms bylaw. The draft use. Any discussions on that at all. So this came to Council at a previous committee of the whole. There was just a few suggestions on this. So we've brought back some changes. They've been tracked in the bylaw so Council can see what's changed. There was a request to define. Center of fire rifle ammo. So that has been included there. Other changes. We talked about the shooting range and shooting gallery. So there's a slight change that says does not include shooting gallery was removed. Because that is proposed within the new zoning bylaw. So we've removed that. We've just removed high powered. Because now we're just talking about center fire rifle. So there's a few places where high power powered rifle is removed. And then just some sections of the numbering had to be updated. So you'll see some numbering change. And then a slight change to add and the discharge of a firearm is not occurring in game areas 34 a or 38. So that was added in. There is also discussion on the very last page about fine amounts that they may be were too low. So we did look at comparables and have suggested some increases those fine amounts. So that's the bulk of the changes that we went with after initial discussions with Council. Thank you. Any discussions from Council with regards to the amendments from our last March 11. I see none. Do we still do the show of support and all that. We'll bring this back to a future Council meeting for Council to give first reading. And then if there's any other changes we want, we can initiate those. Okay. Then we'll go to 6.2 that's in sightly bylaw. Same process with this. This was brought to Council at a future or at a previous committee of the whole meeting. A ton of changes on this one. There was a comment made on page. I guess six of the document where it talked about regular outdoor burning the smoke of which causes a nuisance to adjoining properties. So we have that addressed in our fire bylaws. We just decided to take this out instead of trying to explain what regular outdoor burning would mean because it's quite detailed in our fire bylaws. So we just felt that it was easier to take it out of this bylaw all together. And then the second document is the the offense schedule and I know there were some comments on whether these were appropriate fine amounts. I think specifically with the unsightly bylaw we try to get people to to work with us so the point is not to find people. We just kind of want to get them to work with us willingly to correct the change. So we were satisfied with the fine amounts for this bylaw. Thank you. Any questions from Council at all. I think that's well done. Then we'll go nothing else on the agenda except for item seven. The closed meeting. If I get a mover and second to go into a closed meeting. Glenn and Patrick. Then we'll go into closed meeting at exactly 105 p.m. Everybody puts it on. Thank you. And they come out of a closed meeting at 138. Can I get a mover and a seconder to come out of the closed meeting? Glenn and Patrick. And we discussed legal matters. What a conduct there. And we're prepared to adjourn at 138 p.m. Thank you.

```
